he wants to tell me everything I need to
dump why we only do cookie swaps around
the holidays when we're at our busiest
ago I get a 60 of all the nine yeah
we've got a guest to agree Snoop
Electress and we're gonna talk with her
about how to make some of these
incredible cookies coming up lot talk
about yummy I want that one right there
I'll take we got to get to our first
guest to say that I'm excited about this
would be an understatement her
one-of-a-kind wedding cakes were
featured in nearly every national bride
magazine her work has been in Better
Homes and Gardens she wins awards for
her cookies and now this local woman is
debuting her new cookbook and listen to
this title very closely it's called are
you with me cookie swathed on creative
treats to share throughout the year so
we have in our very own studio Julia
usher a local artist also by the way we
should mention did the cover photography
and all of the photography throughout
this book your taste testers for most of
the recipes were all in st. Louis too so
we love that there's this really really
strong st. Louis tie into this great to
be here today Matt I should correct you
that please the cover photography was
done by Steve Adams now I've done the
food styling but Steve again local
photographer Steve Adams studio very
much a collaborative and he is in the
st. Louis area okay wonderful guy that's
what I thought and I will say just
quickly off the bat first of all the
concept of the book is phenomenal I
don't even want to know if I don't know
if I want to give this away or not but
the dedication inside the book is really
touching to you want to talk oh well I
dedicated to my dad he passed away about
two years ago after a long battle with
Alzheimer's and I remark on him
particularly because even as his memory
was fading he always stopped to ask me
how the writing and the cookie book was
going so it is dedicated to dad that is
very sweet now the concept which is I
mean you smack yourself on the forehead
and think why don't I think about this
we always do the cookie swaps around
Christmastime around the holidays when a
you're crazy busy anyway and be cookies
are just good all the time so what why
is that a that's that's your whole idea
I mean that's the whole premise of the
book and the other thing about cookie
swaps which is fantastic is that they're
really one of the most easy and
economical ways to entertain and what
could be more important particularly at
this day and age
then finding budget friendly ways to get
people together so the book presents a
themed cookie parties that range from a
traditional holiday cookie exchange to a
summer beach bash filled with hot dog
and hamburger cookies watermelon slices
and a lot of lovely decorated sugar
cookies like the type that you'll see on
the set today but it really runs the
gamut you've got things for Valentine's
Day bridal showers birthdays anything
you can imagine that really does give
you an excuse like I need one to go with
the cookie option 12 months out of the
year so show us what you've got here but
today has demonstrated a particular
decorating touch in the book the book
has loads of recipes ideas for bringing
cookies home like in a beach pail for
the super quick swab in the sand would
be um graham cracker crumbs I love that
um ideas for invitations whole host of
ideas also some great decorating
techniques and the one I wanted to talk
today about is marbling looks extremely
complicated but is in fact extremely
easy something the kids will love to do
do you want to participate in the
process you may trust me with your
precious cookies sure sure like a sham
the first step actually is I like to
work with a royal icing and you'll see
mm-hmm three colors of that here the key
with the marbling technique is to have
your royal icing which is basically
nothing more than a mixture of powdered
sugar egg whites pastor had pasteurized
egg whites in fact which option
container like this okay um and a little
bit of cream of tartar and I like to
work with three very contrasting colors
to give the pizzazz that this cookie
shows here and they it feels like summer
red white blue somehow in voc's that
summertime so we'll do it on a smaller
cookie today I'm just gonna wipe you
wipe thank you just yeah because what
beginner is here yeah that would be one
of us me I have a feeling you've done
this okay so I like to work with the end
of a paintbrush okay I paintbrush and
I'll give you a cleaner washer was
thinks I'm rounded in the bristle n
because the bristle tends to be more
difficult to control okay the first step
is kind of digging in there and just
laying a base coat and the key is to
work really really fast before the icing
sets up otherwise you won't get a great
marble on the cookie and then I just
spread it around can I give it a shot
okay for item I spread it around as
quickly as I can why is speed such a key
thing it is key because if you let the
icing set up the egg whites in the icing
allowed to dry very quickly
Wow just set up then you don't get a
really clean fluid looking marble okay
this couch overhears and then the next
step is to apply icings in the
contrasting colors on top and I do that
with a parchment pastry cone mm-hmm book
gives great instructions on how to
create these they're an incredible and
versatile kitchen tool very good um if
you don't have one of these that are not
comfortable working with it you can also
work with a baggie with a little hole
cutting the texture so I like to apply
lot let's do lines okay now I'm applying
somewhat join me here oh really you can
really apply the colors at any which
order doesn't matter this technique is
very forgiving I'm gonna make mistake
like I didn't know the line comes out a
little bit more like a zigzag oh that's
fine too I feel your zigzag pain over
here yeah yeah I get it looking good I
don't think I'm probably agree lo thank
you thank you and again then working
quickly before before it sets up right
you want to run a skewer or toothpick
through all the colors to create this
marbled effect okay you can do that very
regularly kind of like I'm doing here Oh
or more randomly and then do you just it
just on its own in the air will drop any
a lot let it dry at room temperature um
in about a half an hour you can probably
lay other things on top of the cookie in
this case I added a little sugar ribbon
I should also additional dots Wow and
everything we see here like we go back
to this bucket right here everything we
see is kind of a variation of that
absolutely shall I attend ya go now you
went perpendicular you go randomly I
mean the beauty of this technique if
it's very forgiving you can almost do
anything and it's and it looks still
very impressive and also great fun for
the kids just remember to lay parchment
paper all over your countertop thank you
i'll put a drop cloth because once this
dries it's difficult to clean up i'm
having a flashback all of a sudden the
memory of this pattern is its what it's
the same kind of method that they use in
the floofy i'm not a big coffee drinker
i'm sorry but the fluffy stuff that they
put on top of the fancy shmancy pointy
pointy drinks nana you can also glaze
cakes than the same technique Leia
ganache which is a chocolate and cream
and covering chocolate on top and create
the same effect what do and we've got
some i said i still pictured we have
some out here the hot dog oh no we
actually have a picture of these excess
shows you how much these are some of the
hot dog and hamburger greatest book
keeping with the summer theme
I'll tell you one of the things I really
like about the the way the layout of the
the cookie book is the fact that each
recipe comes with a ranking a 1 a 2 or 3
one is kind of like I anybody could
probably do this to someone that bakes
from time to time could probably handle
this 3 is maybe better left to the more
experienced I really tried to reach a
broad audience with this and what we'll
hope its effective the book comes out
August first book sellers nationwide on
amazon right now you can purchase it
through my website julia sure calm as
well excellent and through the beauty of
great day st. louis by the way we're
gonna give one of these away that's what
we're gonna do it can be found online as
she mentioned amazon.com we've also
linked your website up through our site
great day st. Louis calm so let's give
one of these puppies away what do you
say there is the book you see it on your
screen right there we're giving away an
autographed copy of Julia's book send an
email to great day at kmov.com and
here's the deal the fourth email with
cookie swap giveaway in the subject line
will win you must include your name age
address and daytime phone number in the
email incomplete entries will be
disqualified you must be 18 or older to
enter be a resident of Missouri or
Illinois and you cannot have one with
KMOV in the past 90 days Julia it was a
pleasure great pleasure to be here thank
you so much for having me you bet Bon
Appetit Carol not for you you're busy
you have things to do oh we got a lot
going on a great day st. Louis I'll take
a cookie please and so will these ladies